# Integrated Geospatial Methods for Multilingual Cities: Combining GPS, Electronically Activated Recorder, and Map-based Ethnographic Interviews

# Introduction
This github repo deposits the data and code to classify English/Gaelic language usage based on open source English and Gaelic data. More details about the training datasets can be found below: 

The English dataset for machine learning training was sourced from:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.09344  and for Gaelic we drew on: https://learngaelic.net/ and https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06wqg4h/episodes/guide.

# Paper Citation
O’Rourke, B., Zhao, Q., Dayán-Fernández, A., Dickson, E., Wang, R., Wang, M., Zhang, L., & Imran, M. (2024). Integrated geospatial methods for multilingual cities: Combining GPS, electronically activated recorder, and map-based ethnographic interviews. Research Methods in Applied Linguistics, 3(3), 100147. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rmal.2024.100147


# Acknowledgement
The project reported on in this article was funded by a University of Glasgow, Scottish Funding Council (UoG SFC) Grant for Reinvigorating Research as well as follow-on funding from Bòrd na Gàidhlig (the executive non-departmental public body of the Scottish Government with responsbility for Gaelic). The writing and researching of this paper was supported by a Mid-Career Fellowship [MCFSS22\220065] which was awarded to Bernadette O'Rourke by the British Academy for a project entitled 'New Geographies of Language in Minority Language Sociolinguistics'. Bernadette O'Rourke would also like to thank the Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities (IASH) at the University of Edinburgh for supporting a Visiting Research Fellowship during which final drafting of this article took place. The work and contributions to the project by Qunshan Zhao have also been supported by ongoing ESRC funding for the Urban Big Data Centre (UBDC) [ESL/011921/1 and ES/S007105/1]. We thank Craig MacDonell, (Lead Geospatial Research Technician in the School of Geographical and Earth Sciences at the University of Glasgow) for his assistance with producing the maps which are included in the article. We would also like to thank the participants who took part in our study, for giving so generously of their time and knowledge. Finally, we express our thanks to the anonymous reviewers who provided valuable insights and feedback on earlier drafts of our paper. Any remaining errors are our own.